
*********
Contributing Guide
******************

Thanks for you interest in joining the SmartSim community. While SmartSim is
primarily developed by a team of engineers at Hewlett Packard Enterprise, we
benefit greatly from community contributions and discussions. Please feel free
to reach out; we are always open to hearing about your science and engineering
questions.

Code of Conduct
---------------
All users, contributors, and developers of SmartSim are expected to treat each
other fairly and with respect. Please review our :ref:`Code of Conduct
<conduct>` which highlights what this expectation means for the community.

Need Help?
----------
We encourage and welcome usage questions and bug reports from all users,
especially those who are new to SmartSim. There are a few things you can do to
improve the likelihood of quickly getting a good answer.

1. **It is important to ask questions in the right place.**
While we understand people's desires for privacy, we strongly prefer the use of
GitHub issues (feature requests, bug reports or Stack Overflow posts (usage
questions, best practices) due to their discoverability by future users as
opposed to private communications like Slack or email. Slack chat should be
reserved for developer and community discussion. Email is preferred for more
sensitive items.

2. **Please ask only in one place.** Please restrict yourself to posting your
question in only one place (likely Stack Overflow or GitHub) and donâ€™t post in
both.

3. **A minimal example is extremely helpful!** It is ideal to create `minimal,
complete, verifiable examples
<https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example>`_. This
significantly reduces the time that responders spend understanding your
situation, resulting in higher quality answers more quickly. Mathew Rocklin has
`this great blogpost
<http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/work/2018/02/28/minimal-bug-reports>`_ about
crafting minimal bug reports. Questions with examples have a much higher
likelihood of being answered.

How to contribute
-----------------
We welcome contributions from the broader community. These generally fall under
two categories:

- Developments to the main codebases: These contributions directly modify the
SmartSim and SmartRedis repositories to fix bugs in the code, improve
the documentation, or add new features. Before embarking on major development,
please contact the developers first to make sure that your proposal aligns
with the internal development by opening an issue or reach out to us. Please
follow the :ref:`Developer Guidelines <developer_guide>`.

- Applications of SmartSim: Many of our users build scientific/engineering
applications using SmartSim and SmartRedis. Please feel free to make
contributions to the :ref:`SmartSim Zoo <smartsim_zoo>`.

In both cases, contributors can expect the following:

- A quick response to your pull requests detailing why we are accepting or
rejecting your contribution

- If we accept your contribution, a SmartSim developer will be assigned to help
bring your contribution into the codebases by testing it across a variety of
platforms and ensuring code quality.

- You will be credited as a co-author when the contribution is merged

.. note::
    The last point serves as a `Developer Certificate of Origin<https://developercertificate.org/>`_.
    More specifically, we will ask contributors to signoff on the final state
    of the PR before merging. This signoff will then be propagated into the
    final squash merge commit.

How to Connect?
---------------
Questions and discussion about SmartSim should be directed to the following:

1. **Using SmartSim** - If you have questions on using SmartSim please `post
them to Stack Overflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/smartsim>`_
and tag them with the #smartsim tag.

2. **SmartSim Contributor Development Chat** - We monitor `Slack for SmartSim
<https://join.slack.com/t/craylabs/shared_invite/zt-nw3ag5z5-5PS4tIXBfufu1bIvvr71UA>`_
for contribution development questions.

3. **Report a Bug or Request a Feature** - Features and Bugs are managed
through GitHub. For issues related to `SmartSim post here
<https://github.com/CrayLabs/SmartSim/issues>`_. For issues related to
`SmartRedis post here <https://github.com/CrayLabs/smartredis/issues>`_.

4. **Contact the Development Team** - For all other inquiries including
collaboration opportunities, please contact SmartSim at hpe dot com.

